Work Integrated Learning Programmes Division
M.Tech. in AIML
NLP Applications
S1-25_AIMLCZG519
Assignment 2 – PS-7
General Instructions :
1. The experiment is preferred to be conducted on the BITS OSHA Cloud Lab.
2. Attach a screenshot of the OSHA Lab portal that displays the student’s credentials
as proof of access and usage.
3. No extension on the deadline
4. Any queries regarding this problem statement should be addressed to Vasugi I,
vasugii@wilp.bits-pilani.ac.in (Course LF)
PART-A
Task A : Problem Statement:
Develop a simple application that can accurately analyze the sentiment (positive, negative,
or neutral) of user-provided text. The application should leverage Natural Language
Processing (NLP) techniques to extract the underlying sentiment from the text.
Web Interface: (4 Marks)
1. User Interface: Create an intuitive interface where users can input text or upload
text files.
2. Sentiment Display: Visualize the detected sentiment using a clear and
understandable format (e.g., a bar chart, a color-coded label).
Sentiment Analysis : (4 Marks)
1. NLP Model Integration: Implement an NLP model (e.g., using libraries like NLTK,
spaCy, or TensorFlow) capable of performing sentiment analysis.
2. Text Preprocessing: Apply necessary preprocessing steps (e.g., tokenization, stemming,
lemmatization) to prepare the text for analysis.
3. Sentiment Prediction: Utilize the trained model to predict the sentiment of the input
text.
Task B : Enhancement Plan (2 Marks)
Provide a detailed documentation that would explain the step – by- step process to enhance your
Sentiment Analysis Application to develop and expose RESTful APIs that allow external
applications to access the sentiment analysis engine
PART – B
Literature Survey (5 Marks)
Conduct a literature survey on the following topic to gain insights into the current state of
research.
Topic : Sentiment Analysis in Opinion Mining
Deliverables:
PART - A
●
●
●
●
A well-documented code (Python and frontend) for the knowledge graph application.
Instructions for running the application locally.
A brief report explaining the design choices and any challenges faced during
implementation.
A set screenshots that explains the entire flow of the application to be included in the
report.
Task-B to be submitted as a .pdf document.
●
PART – B
A well-documented literature review to be presented as a .pdf document